#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\date{}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
CSE 601 - Classification Algorithms Report
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Dipack P Panjabi (50291077), Krithika Srinivasan (-)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This project is about implementing 4 classification algorithms, and evaluating
 their performance using 10 fold cross validation, measuring accuracy, precision
, recall, and F-1 measure.
 The 4 algorithms are k-Nearest Neighbour, Decision Tree, Naive Bayes, and
 Random Forest.
 The algorithms are tested on 2 provided data sets.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Implementation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Decision Tree
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The decision tree algorithm works as follows,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Based on the data we have currently, we select the best feature to split
 the data into two parts.
 The best feature is selected by splitting the data along each feature,
 for each feature value, and selecting the feature, and feature value, that
 gives us the highest Gini index.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
A high Gini index means that the data is better distributed between both
 branches of the binary decision tree node.
 This is important in building a balanced decision tree with enough samples
 on either branch.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Gini index for a tree node can be calculated as follows
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
GINI(x)=1-\sum_{j}[\ p(j|x)\ ]^{2}
\]

\end_inset

where 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

 is the tree node, 
\begin_inset Formula $p(j|x)$
\end_inset

 is the relative frequency of class 
\begin_inset Formula $j$
\end_inset

 at node 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Once we have the best feature split, we split the data set into two branches,
 and then repeat step 1 on each of the branches, to give us further splits.
 We repeat this process until we reach the maximum specified tree depth,
 or we simply do not have the minimum required number of samples to justify
 splitting the dataset any further.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Observations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
<Show results table here>
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Applying the decision tree algorithm to both sets shows us that the decision
 tree approach works really well, especially for the first dataset.
 The second dataset gives us a lower accuracy using decision trees, which
 could be the presence of a non-numerical attribute, or more cohesive set
 of data points, making them difficult to separate.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Overall, the simple nature of decision trees, along with their relatively
 easy implementation and prediction approach, makes this a good algorithm
 to use for classification, especially if the data set is easier to split.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The downside of decision trees is their brute force approach to computing
 the best feature split at each level in the tree, which makes them scale
 poorly for larger tree and dataset sizes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Random Forest
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
<Write here>
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
